##  Review of Mary Behrend's 1909 Calendar Project

* Site publication: <https://arrowarchive.github.io/behrendcalendar/index.html>
* GitHub: <https://github.com/arrowarchive/behrendcalendar>
* Developers: Rachel Gerzevske, Amory Coleman-Reeves, Logan Hering, Zak Murphy
* Date of Evaluation: 2021-12-18
* Evaluated by: @ebeshero

### General  
You designed an attractive and informative website to introduce and feature Mary Behrend's hand-drawn calendar sheets from 1909. You developed some well-structured TEI XML code as your foundation for curating each page, with lots of metadata to describe what you were seeing and working with. I'd like you to think of this project as something that potentially outlives a semester class project, because you designed an archive, something whose code is designed to last and be shared. In that spirit, I am offering comments on how to continue to improve and develop the project. Some of these are things you could not easily complete in the short time frame of a university semester. But since I did help you to start the XSLT and much of the CSS, there are also some are things I had hoped you would try to build more on your own, taking my example as a launch point. 

### XSLT and Reading View
Some of that information you curated in the TEI, like the colors of inks used in different areas of the page, isn't transmitted to the HTML output, but could be if you added template rules to help visualize, say, everything you marked as in the red ink. Imagine outputting that in red to help readers see which parts of your transcript line up with different parts of the picture. It wouldn't take much more code, but you'd need to figure out how to add it.

Your XSLT doesn't have a template to match on the `<ab>` elements, but if you added one, you could use it to output an HTML `<span>` or `<div>` with an `@class` to store the info from those `@hand` attributes that hold info about black ink, red ink, etc. If you could output that, you'd be able to style that information in your HTML and CSS.

### HTML and CSS 
Rachel's page design for the archive page is very striking and one of the best features of the site, inviting readers to take a closer look. You took some care in how you photographed the pages so they all have a similar blue background that pops on the site. Clicking on each image takes you to its detailed transcript. It's a strong feature of the site navigation. 

The page displays are generally very wide, which means you're using the full window without much margins or padding. To give your site a more professional look and improve its readability, here are some things to try:
* Apply the CSS **line-height** property to your paragraphs and block elements: read about it and see examples: https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/tryit.asp?filename=trycss_line-height 
* set up some margins and padding on the main pages so the eye doesn't have to travel so far across a wide page.
* On the Reading View, don't just rest on my CSS that I hastily designed for class! There are lots of gaps in those blocks, and you can take some time to fine-tune the way we set up the CSS grid. Take your time to read up on how to do that to optimize the look of the page. You could also enlarge the font you're using for the transcriptions and image captions. It is very small, and you certainly have room to fill up more of the space.

### Code View
During your presentation you talked a lot about coding decisions you were making, but I wish some of that were written into your site, rather than simply linking to the GitHub repo as your "Code View." Of course you want to link to the repo, but you want to be doing that with some commentary on what you did: For example: 
* You could comment on the ODD schema and link directly to that in the repo: What kinds of decisions were important to make with the TEI?
* We know it was hard to learn to write XSLT, and we did a lot of this together in my office. You could point out something interesting in your XSLT code and link out to the file.  

### Errata: (Small repairs to make in the XML)
Transcription and archive projects need a lot of care, and seem to have a life of their own.
As you look at the site, you'll likely find lots of things to fix, or things you'd transcribe differently. 
When you make corrections, how should you do it? **Make it a policy to always correct the XML**, and re-run the XSLT. The XML is designed to outlast the web display of the data, and you or some other student coder might decide one day to totally overhaul the way you display it.

* There is a broken image link for the very first entry (January 30, 1909): 
The problem is that it is pointing into the `/february/` directory instead of `/january/`
`"https://arrowarchive.github.io/behrendcalendar/photos/february/1909-01-30.jpg"`.

* February 17, 1909: The transcription of line 3 should read:
     `Ernst goes off into inky blackness` 
     and the last line should read:
     `It can't be such a _lark_!`
     
     In In red ink, underneath we see:
     `Poor thing! is it still dark when you arise?`
     
* March 8, 1909: The transcription should read:
  ```
  Perhaps this is 
  _the_ day, tho' I 
  think it will be
  later. Love, M.  
  
  ```

* On the April 18, 1909 calendar entry with the poem: The transcript of the mysterious last line of the poem 
most likely is, "You see we haven't the _price_!"  The word we were missing is haven't.


### Closing Comments
Your team had the challenge of working with the TEI, and you worked effectively on it together, in the midst of a busy semester. You generally did well coordinating with each other. You put a lot of care into the descriptions of images and your annotations on the images. You all learned a lot about how to read handwriting, how to curate and describe it. I would have liked to see more discussion of your coding work, as well as a little more processing in your XSLT to help distinguish the transcriptions she wrote in the different colors of ink and pencil. Most importantly, you created a resource to help bring these calendar pages to light on the web and help others find out more about the Behrends in 1909. Well done! 


